DOC-491: Add OIDC SSO with Okta (#1336)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/08-user-management/04-saml-sso/04-palette-sso-with-okta.md

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Enable SSO with Okta

Single sign-on (SSO) is an authentication method that enables users to log in to multiple applications and websites with one set of credentials. SSO works upon a trust relationship established and maintained between the service provider (SP) and an identity provider (IdP) using certificates. Palette supports SSO based on either SAML or OIDC.

The following steps will guide you to enable Palette SSO with [Okta Workforce Identity Cloud](https://www.okta.com/products/single-sign-on/) based on OIDC.

# Prerequisites
In order to setup OIDC-based SSO with Okta, you need to have either a free or paid subscription with Okta. Okta provides free [developer subscriptions](https://developer.okta.com/signup/) for testing purposes.

If you want to use the same Okta application for OIDC-based SSO into your Kubernetes cluster itself, you need to install [kubelogin](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) on your workstation to handle retrieval of access tokens for your cluster.

# Enablement
## Create the Okta Application

> 1. Log in to your Okta Admin console (`https://{your-okta-account}-admin.okta.com/admin/getting-started`) and navigate to **Applications** --> **Applications**. Click the **Create App Integration** button.

Author: it's really `Applications --> Applications`

<br />

 Enter the required information from the tables below and click **Create**. Use this flow to create 3 claims in total. First create two claims for the user info:

| Claim Name | Include in token type | Value Type | Value | Disable claim | Include In |
|------------|-----------------------|------------|-------|---------------|------------|
| u_first_name | ID Token (Always) | Expression | `user.firstName` | Unchecked | Any scope |
| u_last_name | ID Token (Always) | Expression | `user.lastName` | Unchecked | Any scope |

Next create a claim for group membership:

| Claim Name | Include in token type | Value Type | Filter | Disable claim | Include In |
|------------|-----------------------|------------|-------|---------------|------------|
| groups | ID Token (Always) | Groups | Starts with: `palette-` | Unchecked | Any scope |

The example above will include the names of any groups that the Okta user is a member of, that start with `palette-`, in the `groups` claim of the ticket. For Palette SSO, Palette will make the user a member of Teams in Palette that have the identical name.

![Claims Result](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_claims-result.png)

<br />

> 15. Click **<-- Back to Authorization Servers** at the top of the page to navigate back to the list of all servers. You should now see the server we just created in the list. Select the **Issuer URI** shown and copy it to the clipboard. Save this value somewhere, you will need this value for later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. Click **<-- Back to Authorization Servers** at the top of the page to navigate back to the list of all servers. The authorization server you created is displayed in the list. Select the **Issuer URI** shown and copy it to the clipboard. Save this value as you will use it in a later step.
```

Navigate to **Tenant Settings** --> **SSO** and click on **OIDC**. Enter the following information.

| Parameter         | Value                                                             |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Issuer URL        | The Issuer URI that you saved in step **15**.|
| Client ID         | The client identifier that you saved in step **10**. |
| Client Secret     | The shared secret that you generated in step **11**. |
| Default Teams     | Leave blank if you don't want users without group claims to be assigned to a default group. If you do, enter the desired default group name. If you use this option, be careful with how much access you give to the group. |
| Scopes            | Keep `openid`, `profile` and `email` as the default. |
| Email             | Keep `email` as the default.  |
| First Name        | Set this to `u_first_name`. |
| Last Name         | Set this to `u_last_name`. |
| Spectro Team      | Keep `groups` as the default. |

![Enable Palette OIDC SSO](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_configure-palette-oidc.png)

<br />

> 21. When all the information has been entered, click **Enable** to enable SSO. You will receive a message stating **OIDC configured successfully**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
21. When all the information has been entered, click **Enable** to activate SSO. You will receive a message stating **OIDC configured successfully**.
```

22. Open a web browser and navigate to your Palette subscription. Navigate to **Tenant Settings** --> **Users & Teams** --> **Teams** tab, and click **+ Create Team**.

![Create Palette Team](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_create-team.png)

<br />

23. Specify `palette-tenant-admins` in the **Team name** field. You don't need to set any members now, as this will happen automatically from the SSO. Click **Confirm** to create the team.

![Name Palette Team](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_name-team.png)

<br />

24. The list of teams displays again. Select the newly created **palette-tenant-admins** team to review its details. To give this team administrative access to the entire tenant and all the projects in it, assign the **Tenant Admin** role. Select  **Tenant Roles**  and click **+ Add Tenant Role**:

![Palette Tenant Roles](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_tenant-roles.png)

<br />

25. Click on **Tenant Admin** to enable the role. Click **Confirm** to add the role.

![Add Tenant Role](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_add-tenant-role.png)

<br />

> You will receive a message stating **Roles have been updated**. Repeat this procedure for any other teams, taking care to ensure they are given the appropriate permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will receive a message stating **Roles have been updated**. Repeat this procedure for any other teams while ensuring they are given the appropriate access permissions.
```

26. Click the **X** next to **Team Details** in the top left corner to exit this screen.

You have now successfully configured Palette SSO based on OIDC with Okta.

# Validate

1. Log in to Palette through SSO as a user that is a member of the `palette-tenant-admins` group in Okta to verify that users are automatically added to the `palette-tenant-admins` group in Palette.

> 
> If you're still logged into Palette with a non-SSO user, log out by selecting **Logout** in the **User Menu** at top right.
> 
> ![User Logout](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_user-logout.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you're still logged into Palette with a non-SSO user, log out by selecting **Logout** in the **User  Drop-down Menu** at the top right.

  <br />

  ![User Logout](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_user-logout.png)
```

Added a break line with two spaces to the right to fix the indentation.

<br />

2. The Palette login screen now displays a **Sign in** button and no longer presents a username and password field. Below the **Sign In** button, there is an **SSO issues? --> Use your password** link. This link can be used to bypass SSO and log in with a local Palette account in case there is an issue with SSO and you need to access Palette without SSO.

Click on the **Sign in** button to log in via SSO.

> ![User SSO Login](/oidc-okta-images/oidc-okta_palette-login.png)

Reviewer: Do the same trick as above to fix the indentation here.

<br />

> 3. If this is the first time you are logging in with SSO, you will be redirected to the Okta login page. Depending on your organization's SSO settings, this could be a simple login form or require MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If this is the first time you are logging in with SSO, you will be redirected to the Okta login page. Depending on your organization's SSO settings, this could be a simple login form or require Multi-Factor Authentication.
```
We don't need the parentheses as we are only using this term once in the document.
